---
title: "Aligning Carbon Offsetting with Causal Inference: Baseline Estimation and Additionality within the Potential Outcomes Framework"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-09-26-causal-carbon-paper
excerpt: 'Recent work has questioned the credibility of forest carbon offsets as an environmental intervention and nature-based solution for mitigating climate change. Forest carbon protocols have updated some methodologies in response, but criticisms and defenses of carbon credits often lack a common ground over which to connect. Advice to purchase only high-integrity or high-quality credits is ubiquitous, from marketplace stakeholders to governing bodies -- but it is not clear which carbon offsets are trustworthy under which conditions. In this paper, we draw on the fields of statistics and causal inference to develop a generalized framework for analyzing carbon offset protocols. This allows us to directly assess and compare the assumptions that different protocols implicitly make in their methodologies for estimating ``additional'' carbon sequestered by projects. The practice of carbon crediting inherently makes causal assumptions, and each carbon crediting protocol corresponds to an estimator of a causal effect. We formalize these assumptions, define and categorize families of baseline methodologies as causal effect estimators, and present a series of scenarios to illustrate how meeting or violating assumptions interacts with the performance of each kind of methodology in a range of conditions. We discuss how even seemingly innocuous measurement errors in carbon stocks can lead to market distortions through decisions of project developers to enter the market or not. Ultimately, judgment about the credibility of carbon credits depends on whether the specific context of a given crediting area satisfies the assumptions associated with each methodology. The provided framework clarifies what purchasers of carbon offsets must believe about the world in order for purchased credits under each protocol to accurately reflect the impact of crediting programs and builds common ground on which more fruitful engagement between different sectors of the carbon market can build agreement. '
date: 2000-01-01
venue: 'Working Paper, with Luke Sanford, Sara Kuebbing, and Will Gardner'
slidesurl: 
paperurl: 
citation: 
show_date: false
---
